# 2022-12-29

## Thinking about deployment

- Qu 1: what about doing SSR rather than all SSG especially for large sites?
  - For large sites incremental rebuild is expensive
  - Currently you have to build the flowershow app for each site we deploy
- Qu 2: How does cloudflare do nextjs SSR stuff?

  - Previously the answer was basically: you couldn't. You had to use workers.
  - Now there is start of more native support with NextJS v13 edge runtime https://blog.cloudflare.com/next-on-pages/ (24 Oct 22)

    - Or as docs state: https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-nextjs-site/

      > Cloudflare Pages supports full-stack Next.js projects which use the [Edge RuntimeOpen external link](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/edge-runtime) or any projects which can be [statically exportedOpen external link](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/static-html-export). The Edge Runtime allows applications to use server-side features such as [Edge API RoutesOpen external link](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes), server-side rendering (SSR) pages with [`getServerSideProps()`Open external link](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/data-fetching/get-server-side-props) and [MiddlewareOpen external link](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/middleware).

## Asides

- [[notes/tina|TinaCMS]] went v1.0 in November. Always liked it, though still not sure about it as a [[notes/content-layer]]. Why?
  - GraphQL as the API continues to strike me as a ?. Yes, it can be awesome, ... and it is often overkill
    - Plus, i'm left with a bit of a black-box. I want the content layer to be as simple as possible.
  - [Markdown stuff](https://tina.io/docs/editing/markdown/) is a bit of a black-box (i suspect they use remark but they don't say): "When your markdown content is requested through Tina's API, Tina serves a *parsed AST* version of the content." ... "Tina also provides a `<TinaMarkdown>` component, which renders your `md` or `mdx` component from the *parsed AST*."
    - This will be great ... until it's not. I really want full control here ... though i guess i can get the raw content myself.
    - You also have to provide all components used explicitly

## Brainstorm re simplest thing for markdown => website

What's the simplest thing you could build that would turn markdown / digital garden into a site?

```
flowershow publish
```

Rough ideas

- Store data in cloud (rather than do SSG b/c that does not scale well)
- run a classic server to render (that way only one app to update to render everything differently or with fixes)
  - issue of course is if you want custom react components ... then this doesn't work
  - classic story: if you just want the standard setup then a product approach works well
  - if you want customization (or custom components, theming etc) then much harder

## OMM = ORM for markdown

you have object relational mappers.

we want object markdown mappers. i.e. take markdown and give out an object.

Markdown documents are, well, documents so a document approach with flexible schema is recommended.

What do i want to do:

```
load path/to/content/folder > my-db

query (with sql) my-db
```

- Can add a schema (flexible to additional fields)
  - can validate if you like
- Can compute fields (on way in or way out)
- Can query this

What needs do we have?

- [global] Get a global table of contents (list of all pages?)
- Find me forward links for this page
- [global] Find me back links for this page
- Get page X
- Get all pages with attribute y
- [bonus] Search and especially full text search

[global] = it requires global computation (can't compute from a given page)

## Simplest products one could build

- Data Pages (with no options for customization of look and feel, or components)
  - no customization => can focus on building from data etc
- Flowershow no customization
- Markdown CMS: build the ORM for markdown
  - Push my markdown to a useful queryable structure
  - Push my assets somewhere convenient
